# masters-thesis
This repository contains materials related to my master's thesis project including rough experiment and thesis plans, performance simulation models used for the thesis experiments, and the actual thesis.

The thesis work was done in Embedded Systems Group in Aalto University (Helsinki, Finland), with title Performance Analysis of Packet Processing Systems. The thesis was awarded with the highest possible grades (5.0/5.0).

## Thesis abstract
This thesis investigates the use of measurement, simulation, and modeling methods for the performance analysis of packet processing systems, and more precisely hardware accelerated multiprocessor system-on-chip (MPSoC) devices running task-parallel applications. To guarantee the tight latency and throughput requirements, the devices often incorporate complex hardware accelerated packet scheduling mechanisms. At the same time, due to the complexity of these systems, different software abstractions, such as task-based programming models, are used to develop packet processing applications. These challenges, together with dynamic characteristics of the packet streams makes the performance analysis of packet processing systems non-trivial.

We demonstrate that, with extended queue disciplines and support for modeling parallelism, resource network methodology is a viable approach for modeling complex MPSoC based systems running task-based parallel applications on dynamic workloads. The main contributions of our work are three-fold. First, we have extended the toolset of an existing in-house modeling and simulation software, Performance Simulation Environment. The extensions enable modeling of user-definable queue disciplines, which further enable flexible modeling of complex hardware interactions of MPSoCs and the parallelism of task-based programming models. Secondly, we have studied, instrumented, and measured the characteristics of a packet processing system. Finally we have modeled a multi-blade packet processing system with customizable workload and task-parallel application models, and run simulation experiments.

In both experiments, the model acts as expected. According to the experiment results, the resource network concept seems to be a viable tool for the performance analysis of packet processing systems. The chosen abstraction level provides desired balance between the functionality, ease of use, and simulation performance.
